# Sea_battle_strategy
This repository is to store some implementations and ideas on choosing strategy to win sea battle game.
For the time being here assumed "standard" sea battle game - one 4-deck ship, two 3-deck ships, three 2-deck ships and four 1-deck shpis on field 10x10.
One of the ideas to find the best shoot on oponnent's field is to estimate the position of oponnent's ships. The estimation is determined by the minimal number of misses that is needed to guaranteely destroy all "alive" ships (strategy such that number of misses in worst-case scenario is mimnimal possible). For instance, if there is 10 "non-checked" ceils and only one "alive" 1-deck ship, then estimation equals 9, since for any strategy in the worst-case scenario we will miss 9 times.
The implementation of this estimation function (est_pos) is already in this repository. The input field is presented as bool three-dimensional array where first two indexes determines the ceil on the field (row and column, from 0 to 9) and last (from 0 to 1) is used to encode ceil state by two bool values. The encoding is following: 00 - "non-checked" ceil, 01 - "miss" ceil, 10 - "damaged" ceil and 11 - "destruction" ceil (firstly the value with index 0, then the value with index 1). Also "alive" ships need to be provided - array of four values of type short, where value with index i (indexing from 0 to 3) describes the count of "alive" (i+1)-deck ships ("alive" means "non-destroyed"). Last argument that is needed to be provided is "newbie" C++ 100-element array of type vector< pair<Field, short> > 
